There are different cargo types within freight. There is the general cargo which deals with general materials including normal day retail, consumer goods , hardware and textiles. Then there is special cargo which deals with more complex/complicated goods. This is distinguished through their weight, type of product, labeling etc. Regulations have to be followed when handling these "special" goods to ensure that the quality of the product is retained at all times.

There are different boards to ensure that the quality of the product is satisfied. These boards review and understand whether the products within the cargo are dealt with property and treated as required. Shipping temperature controlled goods requires regular control by onboard staff, to ensure that spoilage does not occur and that temperature sensitive items are not harmed. It is essential that documentation is filled out to ensure that staff understand the product being dealt with.

Some information which has to be filled out onto a document includes the contents of the package, the temperature requirements, the preferred scheduling and routing, whether there is temperature control available, contact number, and any other information which may aid in the offloading process. Before loading onto the aircraft it must be ensured that the goods are well covered. This means that specific materials are used to insulate certain goods and requirements to promote longevity. 

Air transport is generally used for foods that spoil quickly, transporting them to markets where they can be sold quickly to avoid them spoiling before sale and leaving the business with missing profits and the costs of disposal. This is an area which requires a large amount of market research, to ensure the food is being sent to a place that has a large enough market and enough demand to avoid wasted food and lost profit.

Some examples of foods that can be transported by air are: preserved foods which can last for a long time such as sausages, preserved fish, and meat; highly perishable fresh fruits such as mangoes, oranges, and peaches; and highly perishable vegetables such as garlic and ginger.

There are several different types of freight available. This information has covered the details of general freight, but it all applies to every type of freight, such as expedited air freight. This type of freight is when the goods are transported on the next available flight directly to the delivery location. This is the fastest possible method of transport, but also the most expensive, usually coming with a sizable extra lump charge alongside a more expensive cost to distance ratio, meaning it is only really worth using for the transport of foods which will expire very quickly, but will make up for the extra costs in profit if they make it to their destination as fast as possible.

There is also special cargo, which is used whenever the goods being shipped have special requirements during shipping, similarly to expedited shipping, this comes with an extra lump charge and a more expensive cost to distance ratio, but without the extra speed of expedited shipping, meaning it is only worth it for when shipping foods that require some kind of special care during transport, or easily breakable foods such as nuts or cereals.

Air transport can be very expensive compared to other transport methods, but is unmatched for speed in most situations where the client is not local to the supplier, making it almost essential for the transport of perishables to non-local clients. It is also worth considering for non-perishables if it fits into the transport budget, especially if globalization is a vision a business wants to achieve, as it greatly expands the range and speed which a business can operate at.
