Composting is always a great idea when it comes to recycling and disposing. Essentially a compost will benefit from protein intake. But, there is a problem when using the compost method with proteins. The climate prevents the compost from reaching that temperature to break down material, hence resulting in the proteins in rooting. 

Thus, making that compost hotter is a vital task. One method could be to increase the number of ingredients in the compost. Ensuring that the brown and green materials generate and retain the level of dryness and moisture is essential and will enable the organisms to act upon the produce and accelerate the composting process. 

Increasing the nitrogen intake can be beneficial. Nitrogen will increase the composting process, and in turn increase the temperature within the compost. Aim to turn the compost more regularly, so that the additional nitrogen added into the compost can spread more evenly. As mentioned before, maintaining moisture levels is essential. Ensure that a good amount of water is added, and not over damp. 

 All the brown materials should be added on top of the compost, to prevent dehydration from the dry atmosphere. A dry atmosphere is not suitable for a compost, hence remember to maintain the moisture constantly. A routine could aid in this to ensure consistency. 

Aeration could benefit a compost majorly especially in a cold environment. Aeration provides enough resources for the organisms to work on. As it's already a dry climate, do not turn too often as this can dry the compost out too much. Hence, timed and appropriate cycles of aeration will prove very useful when trying to retain heat, and also the moisture within the compost. 

Protein recycling, and these methods are scientific processes and require facilities to perform this task. Hence, storing waste protein could be an option. However, when storing be sure to handle very carefully as if not food borne diseases and diseases in general can be formulated and spread causing sickness. Thus, the climate still plays a crucial rule in this case, and can retain its state for a necessary amount of time.

Livestock can also be created from protein waste, and used to create food formulations for your animals. Protein plays a crucial role in all animals, and especially important for growth and performing its primary tasks. Ensure, the waste isn't too old as yet again if food borne diseases are attached to the waste this can degrade the livestock quality. 

Proteins can get spoiled at a very fast rate, hence its usability may not be too adequate. Hence, it is always good to develop a plan in terms of what is to be done if the protein gets spoiled. Now if you have any other crops for example a plant crop, or even a vegetable crop waste could be beneficial. The waste can be converted into a fertilizer, which can be applied to crops to boost growth and provide those nutrients which cannot be consumed by humans. For example, you can boil the expired fish and use the produced water for the plants. 
If you want to recycle red meats, it is always good to look at donations. Donating to animal shelters are a great choice, and severely help with animal growth and wellbeing. 
