For starters the by-product of producing refined grains is bran and germ layers. In almost every climate we’ve discussed that this can be used for consumption, and re-used in particular ways. Now some recycling techniques are fitted more for some climates as opposed to others. Hence, I will be discussing what methodologies are suitable for a cold dry environment. 

First off, animal feed. Animal feed could benefit from bran and germ layer, as this could boost nutrient intake for animals. Keeping the animal feed safe is essential as this ensures that the nutrients are intact, there is no spoilage and finally the longevity is ensured. A cold and dry environment is perfect for this, as this ensures that the animal feed is cool and not wet. However, too cold could result in freezing which is not our main intention. 

Bran and germ layer can also prove useful in crop growth, as it has been backed by data that bran is vital for effective growth. Now, crop growth in the winter is very hard. Especially with little to no precipitation, or even sun. It would be useful to create a green house, which allows a few amount of sun rays to hit the soil. 

Emphasize on the usage of organic material to accelerate the process and enable the provision of the necessary nutrients. Most of the time you need to believe in the process, even when the crops aren't looking too great, keep it and wait. Now starting to plant during the cold dry environment is certainly not the best idea, it would be great to start earlier in a hotter climate as the drop in temperature can initiate more growth.

I'm going to move onto recycling techniques in terms of compost. We’ve talked about composting a lot throughout the different climates, and it'll only be appropriate to talk about composting here. Composting is optimal in a relatively hot climate, consistent aeration which means air supply and moisture supply. 

Targeting the climate, unfortunately a cold climate is not optimal for composting performance.  But yet again there are numerous solutions to this. The first being the gathering of leaves. The gathering of leaves enables aeration and certainly reduces odors. Now leaves may not be available, so it is always useful to prepare ahead of time and collect during spring time. As decomposition slows down during the winter, there may already be finished compost. This compost should be harvested as quickly as possible, so that the next batch can start. To recognize finished compost, it must be dark, and with earth odor. 

It’s important that the mix between brown and green materials are adequate, it must be a calculated percentage between both materials to ensure the balance between dry and moisture. Lastly, don't turn the compost regularly, as this could reduce the temperature within the compost. Hence, further slowing down the decomposing time resulted in a poor process. 

Lastly, we will be talking about vermicomposting. The harsh reality is that the worms within the compost will probably not function as well as expected. This is because of the low temperature, hence reduced reproduction rate. 

Hence, it would always be useful to have a location with moderate temperature to allow the worms to function in the desired environment. Boosting the amount of organic waste and nitrogen:carbon ratio will enable the microbial activity to be activated. It is worth knowing that the worms notice or detect the warmest locations within the compost container which is normally the edges of the container. Hence, creating a small hole to feed could be beneficial and boost activity. 

Insulation is essential, and promotions conduction, convection, radiation which is essential to minimizing heat loss.  Essentially adding insulating materials  for example a blanket , carpet or bubble wrap.If you have the money, heating maps will work perfectly, they will deliver an even amount of heat across the compost.  This mat can help with all rounded heating when required. 
