There are many disposal techniques which can be used especially with refined grains. Again these differ according to climate as at times some of these techniques are not optimal for usage. We know that when processing refined grains the bran and germ layer are stripped. This by product can often be used for different purposes. First consumption which can be done in any environment, and the other is recycling and using for the better good. 

Often the creation of animal feed is a desired solution, using these produced nutrients can aid the livestock health wise, aid in the growth and produce better resources. Now, producing this animal feed can be done in many ways, one is connecting to a manufacturer and accelerating the creation for suppliers. Another is going the DIY route. Now, I am not going to go through the whole process of animal feed creation, however, the soaking of animal feed is one of the vital steps. 

This could be beneficial especially in a wet environment. For example the soaking is for a continual 12 hours, hence, a continual water supply without your home water line being activated could help drive more sustainable costing. The cold environment will especially help with maintaining animal feeds longevity, and nutrients within. However, animal feed after production is in threat of increased moisture and molecules from produced rain, hence it is always good to keep the animal feed away from wet environments and store it in dry after production. 

Now, a normal airtight container could do the job as this protects from over moisturization and also from any rodents, pests and other contaminants. It is also essential that the animal feed when stored is maintained at a consistent temperature. Meaning, there should be no fluctuations in temperature when stored, as this can ensure that spoilage is not accelerated.  This would mean that outside storage wouldn't be recommended as yet again temperature varies at night and day. Try inside, the mixture between the outside cold and in room temperature will establish an optimal and consistent range of temperatures. 

Bran and germ layers can also be recycled in order ways. In various other climate sections we discuss compost, vermicomposting, biogas generation as possible solutions to reusing this bran and germ layers. Now, these methodologies yet again are optimal in certain conditions. For example, for composting a winter climate will not be optimal, and is more effective in summer conditions. However, we don't need to throw away this solution entirely. 

For composting, especially during a cold and wet climate, it would be good to keep the heat in during the composting process. Covering helps heating to occur quicker, and will also keep out any rain. This ensures that the compost isn’t too wet, and the process isn't impacted in any particular way.

Chopping and shredding is another method. Woody materials can be added to the compost which expands the surface area at which the organisms can work on, and will also enable the heat to be maintained within, and also be generated. There is a need to balance between brown and green materials. 

This means the mixture between dry and moist materials are essential to have within a compost. In winter especially the dry materials are more available, hence it is tempting to just use those materials, but, in science it is not effective and will in fact slow down the process. Finally, insulation will always be beneficial with insulating heat and accelerating that temperature increase and decrease process.


In terms of other techniques for disposal, if you rely on a third party to collect waste, do not leave the garbage outside as yet again the wet conditions would impact the disposal process. Also keeping them safe ensures that leakages do not occur, ensuring that contaminants are not released into the atmosphere and surrounding environments. 

Waste could be used to generate fires, where they spark flames within wood more easily.  In conclusion there are numerous techniques which could be used, it is always better to re use the materials produced. Often disposal techniques include landfills which aren't sustainable and certainly dangerous for the environment. 
