Vegetables and fruits can be disposed of and recycled in many ways. Some methods are more optimal in specific conditions as opposed to others. Especially with the problems we discussed in the management of the product section, we understood that there could be threats of diseases, and lack of nutritional intake. Hence, utilizing wasted vegetables and fruits can be used to produce pulp or natural fertilizer, which can initiate growth, and provide that no so present nutrients. This pulp can be spread evenly around the different crops. 

Also health wise, in a cold wet environment sicknesses like colds are common for farmers. Hence producing broth is another option. The seeds of the waste from vegetables and fruits can be used to initiate the growth of new plants. For example, avocado seeds can be used to accelerate the growth of a new plant. Now, again this is not an optimal condition for growth or even starting new growth. Hence, it would be appropriate to store these seeds from waste in a storage section. When the appropriate season comes, the seeds can be utilized and used for planting purposes. 

Store these seeds appropriately, I would suggest that air tight containers are used. This is to ensure aeration does not dry out the seeds. Maintaining that initial state of mix between moisture and dryness is essential. Often pest control can also be initiated with wasted vegetables and fruits. 

For example, cucumber skin can be placed next to crops. Essentially cucumber skin can be used to scare off ants and other pests from infiltration. This is very important as diseases and sicknesses are mostly caused by pests, and pesticides can be very expensive to initiate, hence this approach can be more cost saving. 

In terms of disposing, you can always retain the waste and wait for a food bank to receive the requirements  at a relevant time and space. However, always keep in mind that most of these food disposal companies just push to a landfill, which in obvious cases is not the most sustainable option. 

Compost is always an option which comes to me. A compost, requires an optimal environment in order for it to be effective and efficient at doing its job. The moisture is not an issue in this case, as the wet environment can be used to provide that amount of water needed, however the cold is not an optimal condition. Hence, insulation is essential at retaining the heat within the compost. Polythene sacks can be used to insulate heat, and is not effective when trying to retain heat. 

More woody material is able to ensure that heat is generated whenever the compost is initiated. This ensures that the required hot environment is provided. Shred wood into many numerous pieces and spread across the compost.  However , always ensure to keep the balance between green and brown materials. 

Turn constantly, as this boosts population within the compost and the materials within break down more quickly. 
