There are many different types of refined grains, however, in the first part of this section we will be focusing on how whole grains should be managed within a hot dry climate. 

Whole grains need to be managed effectively as the healthy oils within the grain can be impacted by the heat, light and moisture. 

	•	Whole intact grains: food eaten in whole form without processing. 
The shelf life of whole intact grains is longer than flour. If these intact grains are stored in air sealed containers, then the longevity of this grain could range from 5 - 6 months in a dry environment. 
	•	Whole grain flours and meals: 
These are more vulnerable to spoilage, as their protective bran layer is removed. Thus oxygen can reach all parts of the grain. If stored in an air tight container, then the storage life in a dry environment ranges between 1-3 months. 


What kind of containers are these:

There could be numerous kinds of containers used. Their materials could differ based on individual preferences. For example: 
	•	Glass
	•	Plastic
	•	Aluminum Canisters
	•	Zip top plastic bags. 
The main requirement is that they are air tight.  Ensures that the grains do not trap moisture, or absorb odors from other food. 

Here is a chart provided:



Intact whole grain
Whole grain flour
Amaranth 
Pantry:4
Pantry:2
Barley
Pantry:6
Pantry:3
Brown rice
Pantry:6
Pantry:3
Buckwheat 
Pantry:2
Pantry:1
Corn popcorn
Pantry:6
Pantry:3
Oats
Pantry:4
Pantry:2
Farro
Pantry:6
Pantry:3
Millet
Pantry:2
Pantry:1
Quiona 
Pantry:4
Pantry:2

Tips for long term storage:

It is essential that the right techniques are used for storage, and that the practices adopted are done correctly and carefully. 

	1	Check for quality
If the grain is produced locally, within owned agriculture grounds, analyze each grain to select the ones which are cracked and broken in a way. The broken ones are prone to fungus growth, which can occur within the cracks , thus, it is essential these are removed from the collection. 

To ensure longevity look at when the grain was produced, ensuring that the date of production isn't too old. 

	2	Dry grains out
It is vital to dry each grain before storage. To ensure this use a weighing machine to assess the moisture of the grain. This value derived can be checked against a chart where evaluated whether appropriate or not. 

	3	Containers!
Before thinking about storage, it is vital to get a storage container.  There are numerous kinds of containers, however, the main criterion is that the storage must be able to hold air in. You also need to ensure that these containers are clean, and free from dirt, dust or any other un safe pollutant which may impact your grain.

	4	The less light the better. 
Light is the primary cause of mold growth. To avoid this use light proof containers, or even store in a dark environment so that light is not a possible stimulant. Again with all these possible storage areas, you need to ensure that the temperature and moisture is controlled to ensure optimal longevity. 


I’m going to pick out 3 popular grains produced and explain how they could be managed:





Corn:

	•	Hard grain
	•	Has a thick outer shell, which is good for environmental protection.
	•	When dried no moisture will be absorbed, hence, would last for long periods of time. 
Tips:

	1	Corn is dry!
When corn is taken off the stalk, it initially contains lots of water. Thus, in order to keep the corn in an optimal moisture level, it must be dehydrated by at least 15%.
	2	Level your corn
When storing in bulk, ensure that you level the corn. This ensures that the storage is filled with a good amount of air/oxygen and keeps suitable levels of moisture and temperature levels within the grains. Any fines are also removed , which ensures that the temperature fluctuations are not volatile. 
	3	Source locally grown
If not getting the grain fresh and from a third party supplier always ensure that the corn grain is as fresh as possible. This ensures that there are no cracks within, and the grain is as fresh as possible. 


Wheat:
	•	Sensitive to light and temperature.
	•	Hard grain 

	1	Berries over flours?
The thick shell of wheat berries lasts much longer than if they were grounded into flour. In order to convert these wheat berries into flour, you need to gain access to a grinder which can convert these wheat berries into flour.
	2	Again storage containers!
These storage containers ensure that moisture and pests don't infiltrate the grain. The quality of the container is essential, if there are any holes, dirt or pollutants within then yet again the storage of these requirements are not ensured. 
	3	Control pests!
Bugs and rodents are the enemies. Keep them away from storage within and outside. Ensure that they are maintained, and that they are exterminated from a given environment. 

Quinoa: 
	•	Expensive to keep in stock.
	•	High demand 
	1	Keep moisture low
Initially quinoa when sprouted have a small amount of water. It is essential to remove that amount of water to ensure that there is no moisture.
	2	Remove oxygen
Quinoa is high in oils, this means that it can spoil very easily. Thus a de-oxygenated container will help ensure that those nutritional values are retained. How can we ensure this? Well this is through a vacuum cleaner, or any machine/technique which can be used to extract the air in a container. 
	3	Keep cool
Yes, this is a hot dry environment, but try to get a cool environment at around 20 - 21 celsius. This ensures that the grains don't sprout and mold doesn't appear.
	4	Keep saponin intact if possible
Most quinoa in grocery stores has its saponin removed. However, saponin is very useful especially when trying to retain it for long periods of time. 
