There are numerous methods which are used to distribute food via land. The most common being trucks and rail.

Trucks used for food distribution are generally large, with the width and length to allow for transportation of various types and amounts of food as needed. 

When chosing between these methods of land transport there are numerous things that must be considered.

One of the most important considerations is ensuring that the quality of the produce is maintained. Analysing available transport methods to choose one which can provide and maintain the optimal temperature for storage of the food, has enough space to store the food without causing damage to any of the produce through congestion, and that the food is loaded and situated safely. Considering these factors help to ensure that the food is not damaged during transport, and the quality of the produce remains intact.

Alongside ensuring quality is maintained, it is also essential that contamination of food is not an issue. This means that the chosen transport method must be clean, with the food kept in hygienic areas during storage and departure. As delivering contaminated food can cause damage to profits, reputation, and the environment.

There are numerous types of trucks which can be used for food distribution. A regular semi truck is the default option, however, a lack of temperature control makes it unsuitable for frozen or temperature sensitive goods. Tanker trunks are generally used for transporting liquids, however they are also very good for certain dry goods such as flour, sugar, and grains, however care must be taken to ensure the quality of the tanker itself, as the goods will be stored loose inside of the tanker and not packaged, meaning a leak in the tanker could be disastrous, causing the loss of an entire shipment if a low quality truck is used.

Refrigerated trucks are by far the most popular due to their versatility and ability to maintain specific conditions. These can store almost all products, and are very useful for maintaining the quality of the product due to the ability to regulate temperature of storage, making them essential for transport of most foods with temperature requirements for storage. Freezer trucks are fill a similar role to refrigerated trucks, but are more specific, with their thicker insulation and ability to store goods at lower temperatures making them essential for any foods which need transported at a temperature lower than what a refrigerated truck can provide. 

Due to the difference in functions between these types of truck, the prices differ as well. Semi trucks and tanker trucks are the cheapest type, as they don't provide any special storage conditions, meaning there are no extra expenses to be paid. Refrigerated and freezer trucks are both more expensive, as maintaining specific temperatures requires a large amount of energy and resources, driving up the price. Within these four main types of truck, there will also be difference between different models with different fuel capacities and efficiencies, meaning it is important to consider the specifics of the individual truck compared to the distance it must travel. These factors can all impact the budget in various ways, however trucks as a whole are by far the cheapest mode of transport, and are ideal for most transport within localised areas.

The other main type of land transport is rails. There are numerous kinds of rails which can be used to transport goods and meet specific requirements, each with their own pros and cons.
Choosing to transport produce by train involves evaluating many of the same considerations as choosing to transport by truck, such as maintaining the produce quality through transport, avoiding contamination during transport, and choosing the right type of train to match the type of produce and meet any special storage requirements.

Box cars are a type of rail car which tend to act as a default option. They are extremely standardized, with sliding doors on the sides which make it easy to load and offload goods. This is particularly beneficial to store certain types of produce, such as covered produce which is not fresh. While this is the cheapest form of transport by train, it comes with some risks. A malfunctioning door could result in displacement of large amounts of your product, overheating could case the spoilage of foods, and the rail car could potentially be broken into, causing any number of issues. These are important risks to  consider, and the logistics of travel should be planned to ensure that these issues don't creep up. 

Hopper cars are another type of rail car. Their design is different, with different accessibility features for loading and offloading goods. These cars have a closed roof, and are best for free flowing commodities such as sugar, flour, and refined grains. If the produce being transported won't be impacted by external forces, hopper cars with an open roof can be used.

Flat cars are another option. Used for carrying long and irregularly shaped cargo. These are ideal if your produce is stored in containers, especially if they are of long length or width. However this type of car has numerous uncertanties associated with it, as the car is a flat open platform with little protection to stop the cargo from falling off or being damaged by the weather, meaning it is rarely used for the transport of food.

The final option is refrigerated trains. These containers have features with mechanisms that are used to control the climate, ensuring that the produce is stored at the ideal temperature, making them an essential choice for produce which has specific temperature requirements for storage. 
