Managing stored grain during the winter could be hard, and there is a need to continuously check your grains to ensure that the condition isn't deteriorated. Now we know that moderate temperatures are vital for storing refined grains, as some grains are temperature sensitive, and definitely moisture level sensitive. 

So the basic techniques of storing refined grains are done through air tight containers stored in dark and moderate temperature areas. Due to the cold climate, maintaining a moderate temperature may not be controllable, hence, the growth of mold may be probable. Thus, it is important you constantly check if there is mold on the grain. This is done through, smelling the grain, where checked if it smells sour, if yes then the grain is spoiled. Another key task is checking all grains constantly, checking if they are broken, if yes it would be appropriate to move them as now they are more sensitive to vulnerabilities. 

The dry environment in a way is beneficial as water isn't a threat to the grain. However, the drying process during grain production could be a trouble, as during this process chunks of grains may be frozen and inadequate for usage. Subsequently, may even result in increased moisture levels further destroying the crop. 

Maintaining a temperature equilibrium is essential. This is done through ensuring a consistent temperature is supplemented to the grain storage. Through aeration a cool amount of air can be provided. However, there may be cases where there is an imbalance between hot and cold temperatures within the grain storage. This temperature imbalance will cause spoilage and the grains to deteriorate. Hence, it is important to level the grain storage constantly. 

The benefit is that aeration is not really needed especially in a cold environment, as the environment's state can be used to cool the grains. Now due to the cool environment, the longevity of the grains is much higher as opposed to a hot environment. There is no over heating, there is not much of a need to perform aeration and the nutrients within will flourish as needed. A need for a refrigerator is not really needed, as yet again the initial state of the temperature is suitable for ensuring longevity.

In terms of storing in a dry climate, don't resort to storing outside as this could result in freezing which is problematic. Potentially inside, in a not wet area would be helpful. 

There are certain grains which should be stored at room temperature, and some which should be stored in a cold environment. First off, whole grains, and baking mixes need to be stored in a room temperature environment, thus, try to find a dry and relatively cool area to situate those requirements. On the other hand cracked grains, and whole grains which have only been used for a small amount of time need to be placed in a cool environment to ensure that the vulnerabilities are exploited. For example, its temperature sensitivities. 

This is for all climates, but try to ensure that pests and bugs aren't near the grain storage. These are definitely detrimental to the health of the grains. Hence situate your storage above ground level to avoid any potential impact.
