Storing proteins need to be done in a cold environment, hence a cold dry climate is especially beneficial for protein storage and maintenance. If the protein is stored at room temperature, there will be no degradation of quality. However, the magnitude of cold needs to be at least < 4 degrees. 

Normally storing proteins in the fridge is useful, however at times the initial cold climate is good enough. But why store in these environments, because they prevent bacteria growth, maintaining the protein's quality. Can also prevent meat juices from going into different areas of the fridge. The juices if they reach other foods can lead to bacteria spreading and other foods quality being adversely impacted. If you are keeping any proteins in any temperature > 4 degrees then it would be suitable to consume between 1 - 2 days to avoid spoilage and bacteria growth. 

Storing outside can lead to freezing your protein. Now freezing your protein will prevent bacteria growth, retaining the protein's initial state. However, the protein's texture and taste may be impacted due to water absorption and other factors. It’s worth mentioning that there are many different types of proteins, hence , there are different storage requirements for a specific protein. 

Fish, for example, needs to be stored in a very cold environment.  As if not then bacteria growth and food borne diseases will be very common. If obtained proteins try to consume in between 1-2 days, and if not consuming store in the coldest part of the fridge. Red meat must all be stored in a very cold environment. However, when managing proteins try not to mix protein types as this can lead to cross contamination. 

Poultry, like chicken and turkey must be stored in a plastic tight container even if in the cold environment. This prevents any external factors from impacting the protein in any way. Then this must all be stored in a cold environment. 

Eggs have a much longer shelf life, and do not require extremely cold temperatures. However, it is still recommended to store eggs in a relatively  cold environment to avoid spoilage. It is recommended that the containers the eggs come in are kept, as they are suitable for avoiding water loss and protect from other flavors from getting into the egg. 

Tofu is plant based protein, which can last for > 2 months before getting spoiled. However, it is still suitable to store in a cold environment to retain its initial state. Cutting the tofu before storage can enable storage to be much easier and effective. 

In essence, the cold dry climate is a very good climate especially for storing proteins of different kinds. It’s essential that the protein is constantly frozen, as freezing can really degrade the quality of the protein in terms of the taste. Sometimes frozen food can contain lots of bacteria, as thawed food can contain bacteria, hence if frozen the protein will contain all that bacteria. Try to de-freeze only once, as this prevents any issues from occurring.Taking note of expiration dates can also ensure that any open proteins which are in an inadequate temperature range do not get spoiled in any way 
