The management of refined grains in a cold wet climate is followed by many tips. Now what we know is that the management of refined grains is done through dry, dark and un moisturized environments. Especially having a de-oxygenated container would help with retaining/maintaining the grain properly.

With a cold wet climate this totally contradicts the optimal environments for refined grains, hence there are certain procedures which could be followed. We need to analyze the moisture and temperature levels at each stage to ensure insect and mold development isn't an issue.
There are numerous techniques which could be used to combat mold and insect development within the grains. 

Firstly, we could blend the grains together, the different grains could be either high or low moisture. Aeration cooling is another technique which can be used to actually add moisture, by allowing air, water and nutrients to penetrate the grain. Aeration drying is a technique used to reduce the amount of moisture, can dry out the grain accordingly by gradually reducing the moisture to a desired level. 

On the other hand, storing refined grains in a fridge/freezer will ensure that the grain will last for long periods of time. This is especially beneficial if the grain is to be used consequently, and in regular intervals. This would help maintain the nutrients optimal state, and ensure that its quality is adequate. For example, the average refrigeration storage time is around 10 years. However, if the climate is already at an initially cold state then the shelf life of a particular grain would be a very optimal solution to longevity, as the cold will reduce grain moisture, and decrease the deterioration. 

However, the issues of wetness could be an issue especially when trying to retain moisture. This really depends on the kind of grain, as some grains have a much larger absorption capacity. Too much wetness can cause over moisture hence destroying the grain. If the grains are stored outside, a properly sealed container, with no holes whatsoever will enable no penetration of water. Outside storage is beneficial for maintaining a reasonable temperature, and reaching those production goals. 

Now there may be a case where there is over moisturization, hence, to combat this we can use techniques to dry out the grain. We talked about this a bit in one of the earlier paragraphs. However, I will emphasize on the technique used. A very simple technique which could be used is mass grain drying. 

Now , again in a cold environment this would be very hard, as there may be no open space with sun which can be used to dry out all the grains. So, potentially artificial heaters could be on in a particular area, where the increased temperature diffuses throughout the given room resulting in the moisture levels dropping. This isn't too practical, as A it costs a lot and B not many people have access to heaters. Another simple technique is simply cleaning out the grain storage, and ensuring that no rocks, leaves and other contaminants are present. But why, well often these contaminants can impact the grain's state potentially resulting in bacteria growth. This decreased health state will result in vulnerabilities of increased moisture levels and sensitivity to temperature increase or decrease. Hence, removing these contaminants are vital. 

Lastly, it is important to measure the moisture levels of the grain constantly. Ensure that over moisturization or dryness isn't an issue in that particular time.  This ensures that you are able to act upon immediate issues at a fast rate without any further disruption which may occur with time.
