Sugar can absorb odors very easily, hence when trying to dispose ensure that it's done via an air tight container. Especially in a wet environment, as this can attract water borne diseases and contribute to growth of pests in a given atmosphere. 

It can also be very useful in a hot wet climate, as there could be cases of bacteria growth on the face via sweat. Hence, sugar can be used to make face cream which can exfoliate the face and remove all the bacteria. 

The face can also be hydrated due to the benefits of sugar pulp, and be directly applied when needed. Mixing with olive oil has also proven very useful, this yet again is another body hygiene remedy which ensures that the skin is soft, and that it's well moisturized. Now over moisturizing isn't needed, so don't over use these methods unnecessarily. 

Other than face and body remedies, fruit flies may be very common in wet environments, or even mosquitoes thus sugars can be very useful at ensuring that these issues are common. It's a simple mix with water and sugar which is placed in a bowl. This bowl is covered, and is used to attract these fruit flies and mosquitoes, and get rid of them. 

A wet environment can also be responsible for dirty farmer materials, windows, and general items. Sugars can be mixed with water and used to clean windows without any excessive dirtiness. 

Sugar ensures that mold and mildew growth isn't common. It’s important that frequently used materials are cleaned regularly, or if not then its usage will deteriorate and no longer be suitable. While you are at it you can use the wet environment with sugar to moisturize and clean your hand. 

Sugar water has also proven to help the soil break down all micro nutrients effectively, and ensure growth in the plant. It's important this is done carefully as again we don't want to over moisturize the plants soil, as this would lead to detrimental impacts. With brown sugar, it has a very long shelf life , hence many recommend that you try to revive the sugar as fast as possible before it's too late. 

There are many methods to revive brown sugar. Placing an apple onto the sugar pile can transfer moisture onto the sugar. Or even any of the wetness from the climate can be obtained and added onto the sugar, adding that required amount of moisture. 

If the brown sugar is not revivable, then you can boil the sugar resulting in a cooking sauce which can be used when required. Or even you can create a potential fertilizer which can be used for later times when growth of plants is not too prosperous. 
