Storing sugars is pretty simple, especially with white sugar granules.  However, it cannot be exposed to extreme heat as this can impact the crop’s nutrients, taste and coloring. However, in this case the dry environment will play a crucial role in maintaining the crops usability, as avoiding moisture ensures that the crop does not clump. 

To store brown sugar it is possible to store in zip lock bags as this prevents aeration and the sugar becoming dehydrated. Especially in a dry environment where there is little to none moisture. It is required that the sugar has small amounts of moisture, this could be done through small amounts of water being added, or even putting the sugar in a microwave and covering it with a damp paper towel. This would ensure that the sugar has the necessary amount of moisture in order for it to be usable. 

Sugar canes are the responsibility for sugar production, and their growth normally occur in high solar areas, and with abundant precipitation. However, a few tips need to be followed to ensure that the growth and maintenance of the sugar canes are effective. One of the tips is constant moisture, which a dry environment lacks. Hence, there needs to be methods in place to ensure that the crop receives the appropriate amount of moisture. This could mean a frequent provision of water every hour, or even scheduling your water provision in a strategic way to ensure moisture isn't lost. 

However, it is important that the sugar cane is not overwatered as this can cause the roots and the development process to be impacted adversely. The good news is that the sun will benefit the growth of the sugar cane, promoting longevity and usage in different cases. Protecting crops in a hot environment is essential, for example overhead netting could be used to protect against  sun rays, and over heating. Overheating could dry out the plant, and its roots and in result, remove all the essential nutrients required for growth. 

However, in a hot climate it is always suitable to prepare for a cold climate. Especially with climate change, and the dramatic changes in weather.  When approaching a cold climate, it is always suitable to cut the stalks as close to the ground as possible, it should be covered with cut leaves and soil to protect from frost issues and problems.
