Disposing and recycling sugar is quite hard. There are mixed reviews in regards to using sugar as a potential fertilizer for crops especially when results are not evident. Often, this could be mixed in with other materials or by products to produce a fertilizer promoting growth within the plant. 

However, Bagasse is a byproduct produced during the harvesting process for sugar. This can be used for many reasons. Especially in a hot environment, where solar energy is probable, the uses of bagasse could be seen in electricity generation and in other fields of fuel provision etc. 

Bagasse can also be used to produce livestock. In a hot climate, livestock tend to be hungrier, however, it is always good to produce a good amount of livestock to prepare for the colder climates which may come up. It is essential that the livestock is kept in an optimal condition to ensure that the livestock is not spoiled by the heat, and that its nutrients are retained during supplying to animals. The dry environment plays in favor , as essentially no moisture can impact the livestock. 

The right containers need to be chosen as well. It is always beneficial to have a storage which keeps pests, and other rodents away. These pests and rodents tend to try to find shade from heat, hence go into areas which are shaded well and cool. Hence, it is always important that the livestock being stored is sealed well, and that it is in a spot which is away from any potential  impacts. 

Molasses is another by-product of sugar cane produced during the harvesting period. These are especially useful in making human and animal food. This by product will follow the same principles as bigasse, and requires the same level of protection. However, it is important that this is stored in a cool dry environment, not too hot. As yet, again overheating can spoil the by product making it unusable in different scenarios.  

Thus, it is crucial that a cool spot for the molasses storage is found. This could be in your house, in a cupboard or in any environment where heat is not prevalent.  
