The key to storing sugar is in a cold dry environment. Not in a wet environment as this causes the sugar to become lumpy and not usable. Sugar can also crystalize if over moisturized, which is something we don't want as it can totally change the compounds of the ingredient. 

Though a cold environment is ideal, this still has to occur with precaution. Meaning, the storage of sugar must be done in an air tight container, ensuring that the sugar does not freeze hence is usable for a long period of time. 

The longevity of sugar can be reduced if open to inadequate environments and atmospheres. Sugar is notorious for absorbing odors, hence even if the environment is cold still keep it closed as smells from outside can impact the sugar stored. It is important, when storing the sugar, to make sure that it’s not under any water, as this can seep into the packaging and cause issues including clumping. 

Make sure the sugar is not stored near any artificial chemicals as this can totally destroy the crop and not make it not usable to any extent. In the cold wet climate it would be suitable to identify materials which can withstand freezing and water. 

Maybe, food grade buckets play a crucial role in storage and can be adapted to withstand the cold and water. Do not freeze sugar, as again this process can result in the absorption of odor.

Brown sugar gets impacted by the lack of moisture it receives if exposed to air. Hence, it is crucial that even if the environment is cold and wet, ziplock your brown sugar and ensure that it's not exposed to too much air.  

If the brown sugar becomes hardened, add some moisture and it’s perfectly fine by using the environment to do so. For example, maybe some can be added to moisturize the sugar and ensure it's not hard. 

Sugar cane fortunately does not need winter protection. However, it is still recommended to follow a few practices to ensure that the crop is well protected and secure. One suggestion is to add an extra amount of soil to protect from a wet day. Another protection is to cut the cane as close to the ground, and cover the cane's soil to protect from the cold. 

Sugar cane should be stored in a cool dry environment. Heat is detrimental to the cane and could completely destroy the crop. Once again an air tight container is vital, and ensures that the cane is kept dry.

If exposed to water, then the cane will be prone to clumping and will cause detrimental impacts. Clean out the containers, even a small bit of moisture can completely change the crop and cause a detrimental impact. Again freezing sugar cane is a bad idea, it essentially introduced even more moisture, which is not recommended for sugar cane. Sugar cane can remain usable for long periods of time, if stored in the optimal environment. Yet, again there are numerous methods to deal with clumping and other issues. 
