Managing sugars is pretty simple and can be very similar to the management of refined grains. More particularly a hot wet climate could be a challenging climate to deal with sugars, it is crucial that these steps are taken to ensure that the crop is intact and not damaged. Now it's important to know that sugar can be stored in 2 main forms, the dry form and the liquid form.

Now there are recommendations with storing sugars, an airtight container which ensures that moisture, air and odor does not get in. The packaging it comes in initially isn't suitable for long term storage as it's prone to issues and damage. 

Hence, it is always suitable to get appropriate storage which protects and ensures that these issues are not prevalent. Especially, if these initial packages are placed in a wet environment, this can cause the sugar to become over moist and not usable, or if a liquid based sugar can cause the formulation within to be disrupted. 

A cool dry location is recommended. This will ensure spoilage is not an issue, hence do not store outside, try to store inside at room temperature level. Do not get intact with water, as over moisturization can completely destroy the crop, and lump sugar is not usable to any extent. Make sure the sugars are in an odor free zone, as sugars tend to absorb smell very easily. This isn't got to do with anything with the climate, however, it does contribute to crop damage. 

Again, heat could be a big issue when storing crops in this climate. Often too much heat can cause crystallization. Which is a process we don't want our sugars to go through as this decreases its usability. 

 The heat can also change the color of the sugar, and also alter the flavor of sugars which are in the forms of liquids. Hence, from a retail standpoint it is always beneficial to create an optimal environment.

With the correct environments and climates being used, this can ensure that the longevity of the sugars will last for a period of time. The problems of hardened brown sugar is a big issue amongst farmers and is mostly due to the climate it has been stored in. This is mostly due to exposure to air. Again an air tight container could be beneficial. Or even utilizing the wet environment to moisturize the sugar a bit to get rid of any hardening. 

If the sugar you have stored has received too much moisture a simple process can be followed. The sugar should be put in an ovenproof tray. Then this should be put into an oven for around 15 minutes. 

This should remove all the moisture from the sugar. If an oven is not available then it would be suitable to store outside in a covered shed, where the heat is able to dry out the moisture. However, this process needs to be for much longer as the heat will not be concentrated onto the sugar. 
