There could be numerous issues when trying to manage vegetables and fruits in a cold wet environment. Especially when trying to manage them when they are situated in soil. There can be soil compaction issues, hence impacting the living conditions of the crops being grown. 

Compaction impacts the ability to communicate oxygen within the roots, and soils hence growth is not stimulated and bacteria growth is inevitable. Especially during wet conditions, ensure that compaction is not initiated, as this can cause numerous issues. This is to avoid growth of mass soil in a given area.

Maintaining the amount of nitrogen . Nitrogen is extremely important for maintaining terrestrial life and is the primary nutrient for growth, and is essential in any agricultural grounds. Especially with fruits and veggies as they require the optimal nutrients for full growth and comfortability in the atmosphere. 

However, the cold and rain can often remove all the nitrogen from the crops. There is a whole science backing this , the basics of denitrification and the way gravitational forces can impact nitrate availability is a common study. Often to ensure that there is a good amount of nitrogen, fertilizers can be used to increase the amount, and provide that remaining amount of nutrients. 

In cool wet environments, plant diseases are very common. Verticillium is a common disease which is feared by farmers. This disease strives best in a cold and wet environment, and needs to be avoided as if not then the vegetables and fruits will surely get destroyed, spoiled and not suitable for usage in any way. How to avoid this well, it's all about ensuring that the nutrients are provided, trying to change the atmosphere is essential. Especially ensuring that this disease's optimal condition is satisfied. 

There are many other diseases which are probable when vegetables and fruits are grown in a cold wet environment. Now, managing these issues are essential and there are many techniques used to ensure that vegetable and fruit diseases are not common. First off, is removing the infected crops when spotted. 

Often, one infected crop can spread to many other surrounding crops resulting in mass damage , hence acting fast can stop this spreading.  Pesticides can also be used, which are used to kill pests. You need to be safe when initiating this, as some of these poisons for the vegetables and fruits. It’s always better to perform research when deciding what pesticide to use. 

Ensure that all the essential nutrients are able to be absorbed by the crop, initiating growth and nutritional intake. Ensure that sunlight and water intake is minimally controlled. As a wet environment ensures that over wetting the soil isn't an issue, as yet again over moisturization could be a major issue damaging the roots, and foundation of the crops growth. Mulch will always be a great resource to use, as this protects from external factors like debris, or rain, wind etc. Utilizing mulch is not to cost extensive, however, is time extensive as each and every crop needs to be protected. 
