Issues which may arise in atmosphere: 
Adequate storage for fruits and vegetables are essential, especially to ensure protection from weather stimulants. High temperatures may impact the state of a particular vegetable or fruit, which may result in either the nutrients being diminished, the taste being impacted or the produce being totally damaged.

The wetness in the atmosphere could result in over soil moisturization. From this numerous issues arise including the oxygen being stripped off, resulting in root damage and a loss of vigor within the plant.  

How to combat TEMPERATURE ISSUES?
So how do we protect our produce from very hot temperatures? The use of heat tolerant crops is an option. Where essentially crops which are less temperature sensitive are grown, this would ensure that the temperature state is fully maximized and utilized to grow the particular crop. For example egg plants , cucumbers and melons are great examples of heat tolerant crops. 

Another option is to use mulch and shade cloth that is used to maintain the moisture within the soil, and also enable minimal amount of sunlight to be provided to the produce. Also promotes the drop in temperature within the soil and increase in air temperature surrounding the crop promoting the relevant growth. 

Consistent soil moisture analysis could prove beneficial. This consistent analysis ensures that enough water is present within the soil, and that growth is promoted when required. Make sure to water your soil, make sure that an adequate amount of moisture is present within the soil to ensure that there is no over dryness issue.

Try to avoid adding chemicals or fertilizers to the soil. This may over stimulate the plant, resulting in an inability to deal with the added and natural additions.

How to combat precipitation issues?
A green house may work perfectly, which enables an amount of sunlight to be shown onto the crop, whilst also protecting from precipitation. Mulch can also be spread across the crops to prevent water from damaging the roots and soil. It acts like a protective layer, used to slow down the transport of water into the soil. 

You can also wrap certain crops in fabric. A protective layer can be created around the crops which essentially protects from penetration. For example burlap can be used, where garden stacks are used to create a frame. Tube structures are an example, where plastic is used as a valuable fabric used to protect from damage. 

It's always good to check the quality of the crop, as an already damaged crop is vulnerable to further damage, meaning its impact can spread across to other crops resulting in mass issues and inadequate crop state. Remove these crops, and ensure that the crop is fresh so that the number of vulnerabilities aren't that high.

Managing the water run off is essential. If you do not manage the water accumulation then this would result in the soil being over watered. The roots being damaged, and the crop no longer being alive. Hence, creating a water run-off system is essential, which takes the water and drives it away from the roots.
