Issues which may arise in atmosphere:

When storing vegetables/fruits in a hot dry atmosphere, there may be issues which arise resulting in the quality being deteriorated. Especially in a hot dry environment there will be issues with retaining the moisture within the soil. This is especially due to the dry atmosphere constantly drying out and causing the moisture to evaporate.  Now there is a balance between having moisture and little to no amount of moisture, thus it is important that regular checks are conducted to ensure an optimal level.

How to combat temperature issues?

Shade covers can also be used and protected from the sun rays. Ensures that heat stress isn't an issue, and that a controlled amount of heat is shown onto the crop. These shade covers can be portable, so that a specific vegetable/fruit crop can be protected as needed. Especially important with crops which are highly sensitive to sun rays. This can be done with shade cloth, an umbrella or any other cloth which can protect.

As dryness and under moisturization are common issues in environments like these, it is important that the crops undergo a level of treatment and water provision. Hand watering should be done in the morning . This allows the crops to withstand the hot weather throughout the day, and also be able to take in all necessary nutrients as required.

Should consider drip irrigation systems, which slowly release an amount of water into the soil and roots of the plant. It's more efficient and is able to target the important foundations of the plant. A type of irrigation system includes wicking beds. A wicking bed contains a reservoir of water and soil which is present on top. These are separated by a textile, where the crops accordingly remove a respective amount of water to meet the moisture standards. 

How to compare precipitation issues?

The soil can hold a good deal of moisture by adding aged animal manicure and compost. Digging and placing these requirements under soil can result in an increased moisture capacity, aiding in retaining and supplying that relevant amount of water. At times the organic material is dug and placed under the soil, the organic waste as a charged surface which enables water to be absorbed as required. 

Minerals can also be added into the soil, these include vermiculite. This is responsible for initiating improved aeration and drainage within the plant. This will ensure that the plants are in a healthier state, by enabling the absorption of the necessary nutrients.  The different nutrients include calcium, magnesium, and potassium. 

Mulch is another great technique for maintaining moisture within the soil. Will enable that amount of organic waste to be added, as well accelerate the nutrient intake. Normally the mulch applied is thick and able to cover large surface areas. 

Lastly, I'd like to touch on the planting of the right veggies and fruits. Some are not suitable for a hot and dry climate. Trying to grow these specific veggies and fruits is not a good choice as results are not probabilistic. There is no need to prune, instead allow them to grow fully and take their final form.
