Storing veggies and fruits in a cold environment can prove useful especially for preservation and the maintenance of the necessary nutrients. However, this needs to be done in caution, as some veggies and fruits strive better in humid conditions. Thus, yes the climate can be used for beneficial purposes however it could be detrimental to your produce. 

Some veggies need to be stored in a cool dry environment, to try to get away from wetness, to avoid over moisturization. Maybe store under a sheltered environment, where the rain or humidity does not get intact with the veggies.  If you are planning to plant crops it would be suitable to utilize plants which are optimal in the winter temperature. Hence, it would be useful to be familiar with the dates of this temporary weather state, or when a change in temperature is probable. 

You can also start to plant seeds indoors. This allows the temperature to be controlled, and the optimal climate to be achieved when necessary.  This also ensures that a wider range of vegetables and fruits can be grown despite the season and climate. Season extenders are another option, this essentially promotes a healthier environment for your vegetable and fruit produce. Some examples of season extenders include green houses and mulch. However, there have been issues with retaining the season extenders due to the harsh weather .Hence, it is essential they are maintained in a suitable manner. 

Raising the beds of your soil can prove extremely useful. In a cold environment the soil temperature can be dramatically impacted. Hence, raising the beds can result in an increase of temperature within the soil, hence will boost the growth of crops and ensure that the necessary nutrients are supplemented. 

Sheltered areas are of importance, and will protect from wind and water as needed. Will also control the amount of light received by the plants. Row covers are a very cheap option which can individually protect plants from direct impact. Sometimes the row covers can be added to other stimulants which can boost growth and stimulate requirements. 

Greenhouses are another option, which can be built and yet again used to maintain that suitable temperature. Cleaning and drying your veggies can also prove beneficial, removing any debris and then washing to clean the produce. Often moisture on the produce can encourage bacteria and fungi to grow. It is essential to avoid bacteria as this could fully destroy the crop and the lands it's being grown on.

Tight containers can be used to store fruits and veggies, to ensure that an optimal amount of moisture is retained and that over moisturization from wet environments is not provided. The cold environment is also prone to drying our produce, hence it is essential to protect from this by using suitable containers.  If storing the veggies out in a cold environment, do not wash before storage as this can interact with the atmosphere causing spoilage.
