There are many methods which can be used to manage fruit and vegetable waste. Each method has their pros and cons, and relevancy in the particular climate. If the method is not applicable, I will always suggest a couple of methods which can be used to ensure that it’s possible to an extent.

Disposing:

Providing fruit and vegetable waste to food banks could be another method. These food banks may be able to utilize the waste to consume, or even utilize for their agricultural requirements. Rotten food at times is not always usable, thus a compost is always a suitable solution for usage.
 
The rotten fruits and veggies can provide those “green requirements” which enable the necessary amount of moisture to be added into the compost, and the appropriate amount of nutrients to accumulate within the compost. A hot and wet environment is perfect for compost. It allows for the appropriate amount of moisturization to occur, and the temperature boosts the productivity of microorganisms within the compost. 

Disposing into a local landfill is another option. This isn't too good from a sustainable and environmental standpoint. The water run off could result in the waste being transported to numerous areas within a terrain, impacting multiple localized areas especially habitats and surroundings for local species. 

Recycling:

Recycling fruits and vegetables which are not usable is a very good option for farmers. It focuses on reusing the nutrients to enhance the soil of other crops which are currently in growth. Where the leftover fruit and vegetable pulp is evenly spread over other crops. 

Now, this method is particularly useful in an environment which does not have many external stimulants, for example sunlight and moisture. In this case, the atmosphere provides enough sunlight and moisture by watering or rain. 

Hence, this may be detrimental to crops which already have a decent provision of stimulants, as over stimulating a plant can disrupt its internal processes. However, if the plant has not received enough of its stimulants and required provisions then using this method could prove beneficial to boost growth.

Providing food waste to livestock may also be another beneficial move. Feeding animals vegetables and fruit left over can result in overall health benefit, and nutritional intake. Now, this could be applicable to any climate.However, it’s worth mentioning that the storage of livestock needs to be done appropriately. Especially, the emphasis that it must be stored in a cool and dry place. Thus, you need to ensure that the storage is away from the sun, and that the storage is covered ensuring that any water cannot penetrate the soil. Potentially, within a shed or even your house. 

Especially in hot environments animals tend to eat less, hence the processing of livestock during this time will not be in demand as opposed to other seasons. Going ahead with this option may not be profitable and instead result in time wastage. 

It’s always good to think about suitable methods to deal with vegetable and fruit waste according to the specific climate. If not then the method will not be as effective as possible. 
