There are many techniques which can be used to recycle and dispose of vegetables/fruit waste in a cold wet environment. Some of these techniques however, are not optimal for execution, hence its essential that certain precautions are taken when conducting these practices. 

Valorization and extraction of bioactive compounds can prove useful. Remember plant growth or any produce growth isn't as accelerated when growing in a cold environment. Thus, it would be suitable to use the bioactive compounds of fruit and vegetable waste as this could act as a fertilizer boosting growth and nutrient intake. 

If you have animals, livestock can also be produced and useful as sometimes producing quality crops in a cold wet environment could be a struggle. Hence using waste to make nutritious livestock could be beneficial when trying to keep animals healthy.  If the process of making livestock is not possible at the time, make sure to store the waste. Storing the waste properly is essential, especially in a cold wet environment. 

Most of the time too much water on the waste could remove the nutrient and degrade it even further, sometimes the cold can dry out the waste resulting in it no longer being useful. Hence, potential containers can prove useful. This can be stored in a shed, were later extracted and used to produce that livestock. Now, I'm sure that farmers or other individuals involved in the agricultural practices will definitely benefit from your food waste, hence, if you are not using yours, contact a food waste business and or distribute it to local workers. This is another recycling method and is much easier to deal with waste.

If this is not possible, disposing into a landfill is always an option. Make sure when throwing into your local garbage collectors, ensure that it's well protected from wind , as this could result in the waste being scattered all around. This is not recommended as a landfill is extremely unsustainable and has environmental issues. 

Winter worm composting is another key concept. Often the worms stop eating during the winter , and cause leftovers to cause disease. Hence stop feeding them, and instead perform certain tasks to the compost. One is insulating the compost , and water proof tarp.  Will ensure that warmer air is within the compost, and any rain, snow, and other other precipitation is avoided from contact with the compost. Leftover cooked rice being dug underneath can cause heating as it breaks down. 

This process may be very slow, and the results may not be as evident, however, it is essential that you are patient and trust the process. If you are creating a compost, ensure that it doesn't get too wet, as often the water displaces the oxygen and the microbes will suffocate and die. Again mulch can be a very good material to stop the water from penetrating the soil. Composting indoors also avoids the climate from impacting the compost adversely. Just commit the same tasks, but ensure that the necessary temperature and resource provision is occurring regularly.  Lastly, freeze protection will prove useful from protecting from a cold climate, however, in order to do this mechanical processes of generating heat and insulation are essential. 
