What you would notice is that in most of the climate sections we talked about using methods to deal with waste. Some of these methods included compost, vermicompost, and also the general disposal standards of each product. What is important to understand is that these methods occur better in certain conditions. Hence, here I will be discussing what these conditions are and how they can be met. 

The first I will be talking about is compost. First off , it is essential that you try to find different types of organic waste , as this will make your compost richer. It’s important that you make sure that the organic waste added into the compost isn't chemical filled as this would first off damage the other organic waste, and deprive the compost of its essential nutrients. 

Especially, in a hot dry environment, always try to maintain an adequate percentage between nitrogen and carbon materials. This is to ensure that there is an adequate amount of moisture and dryness in the compost. Since it is already a very dry environment it would be suitable to add elements which would boost the moisture within the crops.

Always regulate the compost to ensure that the organic waste hasn't gone bad, this means smelling the compost and ensuring no rotten material has been produced. We know that decomposition of organic waste during the dry climate is very slow, to combat this it's all about ensuring that there is a healthy amount of moisture. 

To avoid dryness of compost, wet all organic waste before adding it into the compost. Another trick is to trap the moisture in any method. Mulch can prevent the moisture from evaporating. Ensure that aeration is still active, and that the compost is being supplied with oxygen. 

Now, in the other sections I mentioned that some of this waste can be used in the production of livestock. It is essential that the livestock is kept in optimal temperatures, to avoid spoilage and other tissues. Anaerobic digestion is another method which can be used, where essentially the biodegradable material is broken down without oxygen. This can be used to produce biogas, biogas can be used to power electricity and heat. 

Veggies and fruits can be sent to food banks. Often the food banks utilize these waste materials to initiate different processes, which may help them in the long and short run.  More often, there is food waste, which uses the waste particularly in compost creation, bio gas and other initiatives. 

As discussed with other climates vegetables and fruit waste can be used to generate pulp. This pulp contains a great deal of  nutrients. Due to the nutrients they contain, the fruit pulp is spread across the crops initiating growth, and in general accelerating the process for generation. The pulp at times can also be consumed.

At times specified landfills are suggested, and allow the maintenance of certain goods and requirements. 
