The only real method used to transport anything by water is ships, with the variation coming from the types of ship. Items are transported in large containers, with the exact size depending on the needs and type of storage. Transport by sea is the slowest form of international transport, meaning it is especially important to ensure conditions are correct to avoid degradation of products.

The temperature of the containers is adjusted according to the contents, being set to the optimal level for the contents of each container. It is up to the crew of the ship to check constantly to ensure the product is secure. The transit time also needs to be suitably selected to avoid produce from degrading over time.

Produce that doesn't need to be kept at a certain temperature will be transported in non-refrigerated containers, which saves electricity and reduces costs.

Shipping companies have adopted and implemented various technologies to ensure that the quality of products in maintained completely during transport. Food is transported in specific "food grade" containers, which are made of certain specific metals that won't release any harmful chemicals into the food stored within them.

There are numerous different types of ships used for shipping different requirements. The first and most common are general cargo ships, which use their own cranes to load and unload containers. These ships have enough space to store a decent amount of containers, and can be automated, as they are fitted with navigational directions.

Bulk carriers are another choice. These carriers are used to carry loose or crushed units, such as refined grains, flour, or sugars. Spoon shaped cranes are used to load and unload the crushed units into the storage compartments These compartments are covered to protect them from the weather. This is especially beneficial if the environment is windy, or rainy in a particular manner.  

Reefer vessels are ideal for when perishable goods need to transported by sea, as they are fitted with temperature controls to ensure that any food with specific temperature requirements for storage is maintained adequately to ensure quality and prevent spoilage.

When the route for transport of good requires a mix of both land and ship transport, Ro-Ro ships are ideal. These are ships designed to transport vehicles such as trucks and lorries, allowing for a truck to carry produce to a seaport where it is transported across the sea, then carry the produce the rest of the distance from that seaport to the client. These ships are equipped with all the necessary safety mechanisms to prevent any damage to the trucks or their contents.

When transporting produce in the form of livestock, the only real option is special livestock vessels, which are designed specifically for the transportation of livestock, as ships not designed for the specific purpose would not be adequate.

Shipping goods over water is an effective way to expand the reach of transport and globalise at a lower cost than air transport, with the lower costs allowing for produce that would otherwise go unsold locally to be transported to international markets in a way that would not be financially sustainable by air, reducing wasted food. 
